This is my second attempt at applying for the PGCE for secondary music education. I have more than 6 years experience with this age group as an assistnat language teacher in Japan, about 7-8 years experience with orchestras in Japan, the UK and Italy, two degrees, one in electronic music, the other an Italian diploma in Violin equivalent to a British 3-year undegraduate degree, and most importantly the desire to work in music education.

None of this hides the fact that I was not a good A-level student when I was a teenager. However, more recently I have started to put this down to more than just my performance, and attitude as a 17 year old in rural Hertfordshire in the laste 1990s.There were far more factors at play, such as my cultural identity, support from peers, and the misic provision of my schools and community. One thing, in particular that I have noticed during my last year supporting the music team at my international school in South Japan, is the effect of music education on entire generations. Decisions on how to organize curricular and extra-curricular music education in Japna has had a massive impact on say, the number of string players in the nation, the attitude that people have to this as an exclusive study area, and the extraordinary level of their yoth wind orchestras. There are some really positive elements to British music education that I genuinely miss even though I couldn't appreciate them as a school student. inclusion of electronic music, regular opportunities to perform chamber music, and open attititude to all musical cultures, and serious study of harmony and composition are all advantages that the British music edcuation system has over the severly marginalized state of curricular music teaching in Japanese schools.

the longer I have to think about music education, the more I realize the unique study background I have. In over six years working in publuc school sin Japan, and my three years studying in Italy, I still haven't met anyone with an interdsiciplinerary nackgroiund in violin and electronic music. The problem for me though is understanding if the rest of the society values this or not. Maybe the reason mpst schools don't offer Italian, math, violin, and electronic music studies as a viable study option is because their communities don't value these things. Foreign language is limited to English and Spanish, or Chinese to maximise utility, and public music provision is mainly focused on recorders and choirs in order to maximize inclusivity. I will have to let the rest of society come to a decision on the value of the things I have studied, however, I do think I have something unique to offer secpndary level music studies.